---
title: Quick Concepts
description: Core concepts and terminology used in mion APIs.
---

## Jargon

::card-group
  :::card
  ---
  title: Routes
  icon: i-lucide-route
  to: /docs/server/routes
  ---
  Methods that can be called remotely and have a URL assigned.
  :::

  :::card
  ---
  title: Hooks
  icon: i-lucide-anchor
  to: /docs/server/hooks
  ---
  Auxiliary or (middleware) functions that get executed before or after a route. Hooks can send/receive data but cannot be called directly.
  :::

  :::card
  ---
  title: Execution Path
  icon: i-lucide-git-branch
  to: /docs/server/execution-path
  ---
  Ordered list of all the methods to be executed when calling a route. Each execution path can contain multiple Hooks but a single Route method.
  :::

  :::card
  ---
  title: Call Context
  icon: i-lucide-box
  to: /docs/server/call-context
  ---
  The context passed to every route or hook method, contains data like request, response, and context data. It is always the first parameter of any route or hook handler.
  :::

  :::card
  ---
  title: Run Types
  icon: i-lucide-scan-text
  ---
  mion uses @mionkit/run-types for automatic validation and serialization. When TypeScript gets compiled, extra bytecode is generated containing type metadata that can later be accessed at runtime and used for validation, serialization, and many other extra functionality.
  :::
::

## RPC vs REST

Some advantages of an RPC architecture:

- ✅ Type Safety
- ✅ Fewer abstractions
- ✅ Better client-server integration

For more detailed insights into different API types and their pros and cons, check out Nate Barbettini's presentation (API Throw-down: RPC vs REST vs GraphQL)

<iframe 
  width="100%" 
  height="400" 
  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/IvsANO0qZEg" 
  title="API Throw-down: RPC vs REST vs GraphQL" 
  frameborder="0" 
  allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" 
  allowfullscreen>
</iframe>

