---
title: Routes 
description: Learn how to define and register routes in mion APIs.
toc: false
---

mion has an RPC style routing system so Routes are just functions that can be called remotely.

The first parameter of the remote method is always the [Call Context](/docs/server/call-context). The rest of parameters are the remote parameters that get deserialized and validated before the route gets executed.

There are no URLs or Paths when defining a route, instead the API is defined using a plain JavaScript object, where every entry of the object is a route or hook. This way we simplify referencing remote methods when calling them from the client.

Internally a URL is generated for each route so these can be referenced using regular HTTP requests, but all this complexity is managed transparently by the [client](/docs/client/client).

## Defining a Route

Routes can be defined using the `route` function by passing the [`Handler`](#handler) as first parameter and [RouteOptions](#routedef) as second.

::tip
**Quick Tip:** Never assign a type to Routes/Hooks, instead always use the [`satisfies`](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/release-notes/typescript-4-9.html#the-satisfies-operator){target="_blank"} operator.   
This guarantees routers are fully typed.
::

<code-import path="packages/examples/src/router/routes-definition.routes.ts" lang="ts" />

## Registering Routes

We can register routes by passing the routes to `initMionRouter` or explicitly calling `registerRoutes` once router has been initialized.

<code-import path="packages/examples/src/router/registering-multiple.routes.ts" lang="ts" />

## Naming Routes

Keep it simple and use regular valid JS variable names for routes. It is not recommended to use the array notation (using quotes) to define route names.

::note
When a route lookup is done there is no URL decoding done so if you define names that include special URL encoded characters then routes won't be found.
::

<code-import path="packages/examples/src/router/no-recommended-names.routes.ts" lang="ts" />

:spacer

## Type Reference

### Handler

A Route can be a simple function `Handler` with the call context as first parameter.

<code-import path="packages/router/src/types/handlers.ts" lang="ts" commentStart="// type-handler-start" commentEnd="// type-handler-end" />

### RouteDef

We can use a `RouteDef` object when we want to customize the default behavior of a route.

<code-import path="packages/router/src/types/definitions.ts" lang="ts" commentStart="// type-route-def-start" commentEnd="// type-route-def-end" />

<!-- code-import-timestamp 1768778293815 -->
