---
title: Execution Chain
description: Understanding the order of execution for routes and linkedFns in mion.
toc: false
---

The Execution Chain is a list of all the linkedFns and the route that are executed during a route call.
That is: all linkedFns before the route, the route itself, and all linkedFns after the route.

For every incoming request the Execution Chain is retrieved and all linkedFns and the route get executed in order.

## Execution Order

::note
The order in which Routes and LinkedFns are added to the router is important.
LinkedFns and Routes are executed in the same order they are defined (Top Down order).
::

<code-import path="packages/examples/src/router/valid-definition-order.routes.ts" lang="ts" />

**Generated Execution Chain for: `pets.getPet`**

<mermaid>
graph LR
  A(authorizationLinkedFn) --> B{{getPet}} --> E(errorHandlerLinkedFn) --> C(loggingLinkedFn)
  style B color:#00dc82
</mermaid>

### LinkedFn's Scope

We can limit linkedFns to be executed only on a subset of routes.

The `userOnlyLinkedFn` from previous example will be executed **only** for the routes under `users` but not for routes under `pets`.

**Generated Execution Chain for: `users.getUser`**

<mermaid>
graph LR
  A(authorizationLinkedFn) --> B(userOnlyLinkedFn) --> C{{getUser}} --> E(errorHandlerLinkedFn) --> D(loggingLinkedFn)
  style B color:#f59e0b
  style C color:#00dc82
</mermaid>

## Invalid Route Names

There are some reserved words that cannot be used as route names.
If a reserved word is used as a route name, a validation error will be thrown when initializing the router.

