website/content/4.benchmarks/2.update-user.md, before:

---
toc: false
title: Update User
---

# Update User Benchmarks

This is a more realistic scenario that involves validation and serialization of parameters.

## What is tested?

The test consist of an `updateUser` request where the fields of the user must be deserialized and validated and response must be serialized.

The `lastUpdate` field is a date that must be transformed into a JS `Date` (deserialized) and validated, then a month is added to the Date and the updated user is send back in the response.

```ts
export interface User {
  id: number;
  name: string;
  surname: string;
  lastUpdate: Date;
}

// ### mion ###
// the received user by the route is already validated and deserialized
// user.lastUpdate is already a js date instead and string (result of JSON.parse)
const routes = {
  updateUser: (ctx, user: User): User => {
    user.lastUpdate.setMonth(user.lastUpdate.getMonth() + 1);
    return user;
  },
} satisfies Routes;

// ### Express ###
// A plugin must be used to parse the json body
// validation must be done manually and user.lastUpdate must be deserialized manually into a date
// in this case developer would have to manually write `isUser` and `deserializeUser` functions. (check src code fo those functions)
app.post('/updateUser', function (req, res) {
  const rawUser = req.body?.updateUser;
  if (!isUser(rawUser)) throw 'app error, invalid parameter, not a user';
  const user = deserializeUser(rawUser);
  user.lastUpdate.setMonth(user.lastUpdate.getMonth() + 1);
  res.json(user);
});
```

:spacer

## Benchmarks

* __Machine:__ darwin x64 | 8 vCPUs | 16.0GB Mem
* __Node:__ `v18.17.0`
* __Run:__ Sat Oct 07 2023 14:14:11 GMT+0100 (Irish Standard Time)
* __Method:__ `autocannon -c 100 -d 40.02 -p 10 localhost:3000` (two rounds; one to warm-up, one to measure)

#### Req (R/s) 

![benchmarks](/charts-servers/requests.png)

#### Throughput (Mb/s) 

![benchmarks](/charts-servers/throughput.png)

#### Latency (ms) 

![benchmarks](/charts-servers/latency.png)

#### Max Memory (Mb) 

![benchmarks](/charts-servers/maxMem.png)

#### Memory Series (MB) 

![benchmarks](/charts-servers/memSeries.png)

## Notes on current results:

We are aware that the memory consumption is a bit higher than other frameworks, this is in part because there is [types cache](https://docs.deepkit.io/english/runtime-types.html#_type_cache) storing all extra run type metadata of the code, and partly due to some design decision to not reuse the native request and response objects within mion routes.

This said it is just the baseline memory which is a bit Higher (when the code gets loaded) and mion memory keeps steady under heavy workloads. Please note both mion and @deepkit/type are still in beta an there is room for improvement.

Throughput is usually bigger on mion as we send/receive slightly more data in the request/response body compared to other frameworks.

:button-link[View in Benchmark's Repo]{icon="simple-icons:github" href="https://github.com/MionKit/Benchmarks" blank style="margin-top:2rem;"}

## Results Table


| Framework | Version        | Router | Req (R/s)   | Latency (ms) | Output (Mb/s) | Max Memory (Mb) | Max Cpu (%) | Validation | Description                                                                                               |
| :--       | --:            | --:    | :-:         | --:          | --:           | --:             | --:         | :-:        | :--                                                                                                       |
| http-node | 16.18.0        | ✗      | 17071.8     | 58.04        | 4.10          | 85              | 120         | ✗          | bare node http server, should be the theoretical upper limit in node.js performance                       |
| mion.bun  | 0.6.2          | ✓      | 17005.9     | 58.27        | 3.94          | 110             | 107         | ✓          | mion using bun, automatic validation and serialization                                                    |
| fastify   | 4.10.2         | ✓      | 15164.0     | 65.41        | 3.66          | 98              | 118         | -          | Validation using schemas and ajv. schemas are generated manually or using third party tools               |
| **mion**  | **0.6.2**      | **✓**  | **13971.8** | **71.02**    | **3.86**      | **100**         | **117**     | **✓**      | **Automatic validation and serialization out of the box**                                                 |
| restify   | 11.1.0         | ✓      | 11498.2     | 86.39        | 2.95          | 133             | 118         | ✗          | manual validation or third party tools                                                                    |
| hapi      | 21.3.2         | ✓      | 8177.9      | 121.65       | 1.97          | 105             | 132         | ✗          | validation using joi or third party tools                                                                 |
| deepkit   | 1.0.1-alpha.75 | ✓      | 5268.5      | 188.92       | 1.27          | 283             | 142         | ✓          | Automatic validation and serialization out of the box                                                     |
| express   | 4.18.2         | ✓      | 4471.4      | 222.63       | 1.07          | 119             | 126         | ✗          | manual validation or third party tools                                                                    |

Commit message:

update benchmarks to use billboard js instead generated image charts

website/content/4.benchmarks/2.update-user.md, after:

---
toc: false
title: Update User
---

# Update User Benchmarks

::alert{type="success"}
This **Update User** benchmark compares validation and serialization on top of routing performance.
::

These benchmarks are based on the [fastify benchmarks](https://github.com/fastify/benchmarks){target="_blank"} repo! in fact our goal is to perform similar to fastify as we considered it the industry standard in terms of performance.

mion is focused on being lightweight and fast so it can be run in serverless environments. We run the benchmarks before every PR gets merged to ensure there is no performance regression.

Please always take benchmarks as general guidelines as you might obtain different results in your real world application. we just run the benchmarks to ensure there is no performance degradation when new features/fixes are added to mion.


## What is tested?

The test consist of an `updateUser` request where the fields of the user must be deserialized and validated and response must be serialized.

The `lastUpdate` field is a date that must be transformed into a JS `Date` (deserialized) and validated, then a month is added to the Date and the updated user is send back in the response.

```ts
export interface User {
  id: number;
  name: string;
  surname: string;
  lastUpdate: Date;
}

// ### mion ###
// the received user by the route is already validated and deserialized
// user.lastUpdate is already a js date instead and string (result of JSON.parse)
const routes = {
  updateUser: (ctx, user: User): User => {
    user.lastUpdate.setMonth(user.lastUpdate.getMonth() + 1);
    return user;
  },
} satisfies Routes;

// ### Express ###
// A plugin must be used to parse the json body
// validation must be done manually and user.lastUpdate must be deserialized manually into a date
// in this case developer would have to manually write `isUser` and `deserializeUser` functions. (check src code fo those functions)
app.post('/updateUser', function (req, res) {
  const rawUser = req.body?.updateUser;
  if (!isUser(rawUser)) throw 'app error, invalid parameter, not a user';
  const user = deserializeUser(rawUser);
  user.lastUpdate.setMonth(user.lastUpdate.getMonth() + 1);
  res.json(user);
});
```

### Notes

We can observe how in this benchmark the requests takes considerably more time compared with the hello world benchmark. This is mostly because each request is spending extra time on validation and serialization.

:spacer

## Benchmarks

* __Machine:__ darwin x64 | 8 vCPUs | 16.0GB Mem
* __Node:__ `v18.17.0`
* __Run:__ Mon Jan 22 2024 03:07:04 GMT+0000 (Greenwich Mean Time)
* __Method:__ `autocannon -c 100 -d 40.02 -p 10 localhost:3000` (two rounds; one to warm-up, one to measure)

#### Req (R/s) 

:bench-chart{id='hello-requests'}

#### Throughput (Mb/s) 

:bench-chart{id='hello-throughput'}

#### Latency (ms) 

:bench-chart{id='hello-latency'}

#### Max Memory (Mb) 

:bench-chart{id='hello-max-mem'}

#### Memory Series (MB) 

:bench-chart{id='hello-mem-series'}


## Results Table


|           |        Version | Router |  Req (R/s)  | Latency (ms) | Output (Mb/s) | Max Memory (Mb) | Max Cpu (%) | Validation | Description                                                                                 |
| :-------- | -------------: | -----: | :---------: | -----------: | ------------: | --------------: | ----------: | :--------: | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| http-node |        16.18.0 |      ✗ |   17525.5   |        56.54 |          4.21 |              88 |         119 |     ✗      | bare node http server, should be the theoretical upper limit in node.js performance         |
| mion.bun  |          0.6.2 |      ✓ |   16691.8   |        59.38 |          3.87 |             110 |         108 |     ✓      | mion using bun, automatic validation and serialization                                      |
| fastify   |         4.10.2 |      ✓ |   16044.6   |        61.80 |          3.87 |              96 |         118 |     -      | Validation using schemas and ajv. schemas are generated manually or using third party tools |
| **mion**  |      **0.6.2** |  **✓** | **14439.8** |    **68.71** |      **3.99** |         **101** |     **127** |   **✓**    | **Automatic validation and serialization out of the box**                                   |
| restify   |         11.1.0 |      ✓ |   12183.6   |        81.52 |          3.13 |             133 |         116 |     ✗      | manual validation or third party tools                                                      |
| hapi      |         21.3.2 |      ✓ |   8419.5    |       118.12 |          2.02 |             104 |         131 |     ✗      | validation using joi or third party tools                                                   |
| deepkit   | 1.0.1-alpha.75 |      ✓ |   5282.7    |       188.41 |          1.27 |             289 |         141 |     ✓      | Automatic validation and serialization out of the box                                       |
| express   |         4.18.2 |      ✓ |   4617.9    |       215.54 |          1.11 |             125 |         127 |     ✗      | manual validation or third party tools                                                      |
